blog: Tips on moving your dev env from Docker Compose to Kubernetes (#279)
windmilleng/tilt.build: blog/_posts/2019-09-12-tips-on-moving-your-dev-env-from-docker-compose-to-kubernetes.md

---
slug: tips-on-moving-your-dev-env-from-docker-compose-to-kubernetes
date: 2019-09-12
author: nick
layout: blog

> title: "Tips on Moving your Dev Env from Docker-Compose to Kubernetes"

Reviewer: Nit (throughout): `docker-compose` is the command line invocation, `Docker Compose` is the tool name

Author: good point! updated

```yaml
app:
  image: tilt.dev/simple-node-app
  ports:
    - 8000:8000
  command: sh -c 'node server.js'
```

And here's the equivalent Kubernetes config:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: simple-node-app
  name: simple-node-app
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: simple-node-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: simple-node-app
    spec:
      containers:
      - command: ["sh", "-c", "node server.js"]
        image: tilt.dev/simple-node-app
        name: app
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8000
```

"Why can't Kubernetes configs be as simple as my Docker-Compose configs?"

After two years of playing around with both of them, I think I've figured out
the answer!!

---

Kubernetes configs force us to handle change.

When I write the Docker-Compose file, I get to optimize for a world where:

- Our servers only run on a single machine
- One instance of each server runs at a time
- When I reload, I stop all the servers and start them all up again

When I write a Kubernetes file, I have to think about how to upgrade that system:

- Our servers could run on different machines

> - Incremental updates are safe

Reviewer: incremental updates... to the services? to the files? I don't understand this bullet.

Author: tried to tweak it a bit, how is that?

> - Each component is its own file. If we make a mess, we can swap out one component at a time.

Reviewer: not sure i understand this bullet either

Author: ditto

Short Docker-Compose files are survivorship bias in action. They have a much

> harder time handling incremental change.

Reviewer: As in, Docker Compose files have a harder time handling incremental changes?

Maybe just me, but imo this sentence could use more dot-connecting. try:

> We see succinct, elegant Docker Compose files everywhere, but that doesn't mean that _all_ Docker Compose files are like that. In fact, it's survivorship bias in action: we don't see the big Docker Compose files because they're gnarly, brittle messes.

Author: done

I've met lots of teams whose Docker Compose files have evolved into a tangled
mess that no one can touch without breaking. They hope that migrating to
Kubernetes configs will make it easier to maintain. But they're not sure where to start!

## Where Not to Start: Pods

The first mistake people make is to try to do one, big 1:1 conversion.

1. I have a Docker-Compose file with several apps

2. Kubernetes represents a single running app as a Pod

3. Therefore, I should convert each app config to a Pod config and see if it works

Don't do this!

> A pod is a good building block but a terrible dev experience.

Reviewer: I think you have two points in this section:
1. it's slow to update a pod, thus bad for iterating, but ALSO
2. you'll overwhelm yourself trying to port everything over at once -- you should do one thing at a time. 

I don't think you explicitly address #2 here.

Author: ya, i did a bit more dot-connecting both in the intro to this section and down here

When you replace a Pod, Kubernetes will, in serial, signal the process to shut
down, gracefully wait for it to exit, free all the pod resources, and then start

> your new Pod. This is too slow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your new Pod. If you're trying to iterate on your config, this process is too slow.
```

Author: done

`kubectl apply`-ing until it's running. Use
[`kubectl port-forward`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/)
to connect the service to a port on your machine, and test it manually with a
browser.

If you get stuck, [`kubespy trace` ](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/kubespy-trace-a-real-time-view-into-the-heart-of-a-kubernetes-service/)
is a great tool for checking common misconfiguration.

### Step 4) Get a service the depends on “base” working

Find a service that only depends on your base service.

Keep `kubectl apply`-ing it until it's running OK, just like you did in Step 3.

Repeat until all services work!

### Step 5) Throw docker-compose away

This is a good time to throw a party.

## How Tilt Can Help

One of the big reasons we made Tilt is to make it easier to iteratively hack on
YAML files. The workflow I use:

- Create a Tiltfile with the new K8s configs behind an `if` branch, so that I
  can check them in one at a time without affecting teammates using Docker-Compose.
- Leave Tilt running while I hack on YAML files, so that Tilt continuously redeploys them

> - Add port-forwards to the Tiltfile, so that Tilt will automatically them on each redeploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add port-forwards to the Tiltfile, so that I can test my services manually in the browser without wrestling with `kubectl port-forward`
```

Author: done
